Now in this section, I'm going to discuss various extraction methods.
Matters which are going to extract part from a string.
It might be a substring or a character.
We can divide the extraction matters in two main categories.
The first is destroying extraction methods, and the second is the character extraction methods.
I will begin with the first category that is the string extraction methods.
Well, there are three methods which help to extract strings.
That is the slice, the sub star and substring itself.
Let's begin with the slice method.
The syntax of slice method looks like this.
The sliced matter has two parameters in which the second parameter is optional.
It returns the extracted part as a new string.
That is without changing the original string.
Let's practically try a few ways to get the clear idea.
I'm going to define a string.
I'll say let STR is equal to, let's say first, second, third and fourth.
That's how I'm going to define the string.
Now it's going to return the string.
So instead of storing it in a variable, I'm just going to say start or slice.
And I'll just write in here, as I mentioned in the syntax that we have the start index and optional
end index here, I'm just defining the START index.
Let's try to run this and see what happens.
Now you see that it starts from the 10th position and it returns the entire string till the end because
I haven't mentioned the end index.
As a start index here, I can give a negative value as well.
Now, if I run this, you will observe that because I mentioned minus ten.
It started to cut the string from the end of it.
Now you see that when I mentioned minus ten, it actually started from the end of the string and it
started from this 10th position and it return the string till the last character.
Now let me make this again positive.
Let's try the optional syntax now.
The syntax which you see right now.
Now here with the ten, I'm going to define 15.
Now, let's run this code.
I'm just going to run this and observe what happens.
So it started from the 10th index and it read below the 14th index.
Now you observe that because I gave 15 as the end index it read the index minus one that it readily
14th index only.
If you give the negative value, let me give you minus ten here.
And if I say minus five, then you would observe that when I ran this, it started from the minus 10th
position and it read tilde minus five position minus five or minus ten is basically the total length,
minus this value.
So you get this string.
This is how the sliced method works.
Now let's check the sub SDR method.
We do have a sub SDR.
Generally we call that as substring.
But here in JavaScript we have substring as a separate method.
So I would call this as a sub SDR.
So this is the syntax of a sub SDR.
Here we have the start index and the second parameter is not the end index.
Instead, it is the number of characters.
Of course it is optional.
So let me just, first of all, practically try a substitute here instead of slice, and I'm going to
remove all these values and I'll just say ten again here, the very same thing.
If I run is going to give you the very same output, which we got while we were using the slice method.
Even if you say a negative value like minus ten, then also is going to give the same output.
But the key is that when you give three here, for example, then three was actually the end index in
case of slice.
Right.
But here we have the number of characters.
It means that from the 10th position, it will read three characters and it will return it in a new
string, of course.
So if I run this, it'll start from the 10th position and it'll take the three characters which we have
here, including this piece.
Let me just correct two, four.
So you get the idea that actually that is one more character as well.
So if you compare, slice and subsidy are more or less.
They both are similar, but instead of end index, it takes a number of characters.
We do also have a provision to give negative values here as well.
So if I can say minus ten and four characters, then certainly it'll start from the end and it will
return four characters.
So from 10th position, it is returning for characters.
Let me just change -10 to -5.
Now, if I run this, you'll observe that from minus five.
That is one, two, three, four and five.
So that's the opposition from all two, four characters.
That is all you are t.
So four characters, number of characters we get as output.
The next string extraction matter is substring itself, so I'm going to write substring.
Now this method has this kind of syntax where you have the start index and end index.
So if you compare this with slice, it is very similar in terms of syntax.
The only difference is it cannot take negative values.
So let me just try this here as his substring.
Otherwise, the rest of the things are very similar to slice.
Let me just copy this line and paste it again and give me negative value just to see what happens.
So here, if you see we have the value return from the 10th index and when I give minus ten, it doesn't
work.
Instead, it returns the entire stream.
You can also give the end index, say, for example, ten, and I give 15 here.
Now let me remove the second console, clear the console and run it.
So this output is also similar to the slice method.
Now let's talk about character extinction.
Now, if we talk about character extinction, then there are two similar methods.
Character Act and character code act.
First is returning character and the second is returning integer unequal value between zero and 65535.
Let's check both the methods together.
I'm simply going to create another variable called SDR with different value.
I mean, I'll say first, second, just a small string I'm using.
Now I'm going to say console.log.
Here.
I'll see astronaut character at the next number.
I'll say three even if I give.
Let's say this console.log.
I copy.
Even if I do not give this index number here, then also it will give the output.
When you do not give the index number, it's going to consider zero by default rates is going to return
the value of f here.
Similarly, let me just copy these two and I'm going to paste it again to make it fast and as a character
called.
Now this is going to return me Unicode value.
That is UTF 16.
And let's run this now.
If I let me clear the console and run the code, now you see that when I say third position, that is
zero one, two and three.
So as is returned.
And in the second case, it returns F because by default it considers zero.
Here when I say character code and it returns the unique value of s that is 115 and for capital F,
it returns 70.
That is also another way to extract a character.
Let me show you that as well.
I just remove these methods.
And here also I'm just using the traditional way.
That is, I'll say, for example, SDR of two, that is zero one and two.
Now I'm writing this like and adding Though SDR is not an edit.
When I run, it's going to return me add here as you see.
So here string looks like an eddy, but it actually is not this way of writing the code is not a common
way, right?
Generally we see that when we want to get a character, we put a loop, we loop through the string or
we have the character at our character called depending on the requirement.
But this is also one of the syntax existing in JavaScript.
So I'm discussing here.
Now let's talk about questions.
The first question is what will be the output of below code?
Let me just type the code here first.
I'll say hello world and the console.log that I'm using start slice.
So what should be the output of this?
Now minus five.
That is one, two, three, four and five.
Right.
And the second that is the end index is minus two.
That is one and two.
So it should consider all the characters between starting from five and ends at minus two.
But remember, when you are using this negative index, it is going to consider characters before minus
two.
So you have the output W or R.
The next question is what is the difference between Substring and Sub SDR?
So as we have discussed sub x number of characters, whereas the substring takes start index and index
as you see in the syntax.
Now the third question is what will be the output of the below given called and explain with reason.
Now, as you all know, that substring does not take negative value.
So if I give the negative value is going to return me the entire string because negative is an invalid.
But though you are giving an invalid value is not going to give you any added at the same time.
Now.
Let's talk about the next question.
Again, you're supposed to explain the output for the given call.
Now substring does take start and index number, but here I want to share one information.
That's why I have raised this question.
The reason is is going to start from the third index, but the end index is three here.
So if I run, you would see that that is no character given because the start and end is similar.
Now let me change this 3 to 4 and run.
You see that it returns only one character.
So the start index is three, but the end index is not exactly the value.
It is returning.
It is returning start to end index minus one.
So always remember, if you give both start and end as similar value, whether it is slice or substring,
it's going to give you nothing.
Let me change this to slice as well and practically see if I run.
You see that it does not return anything because start and end is similar.
So always remember the end index is not the very end till the previous character of the end index is
considered.
Now let's discuss the last question.
Again, you're supposed to explain what will be the output, as I mentioned, characterized if there
is no index given inside it, it will consider the first character.
So character it will return be here.
Let me run and show you the output.
You see that it returns.
So in this section we have discussed few character extraction methods.
There can be different programming logics which you need to apply with the extraction.
Then the program will make sense to you.